Israeli troops have raided gaza's
biggest Hospital the alifa hospital the
site of a long standoff the Israel
Defense Forces say that they were
targeting Hamas militants and trying to
avoid civilian casualties but Aid
organizations are warning the fighting
will worsen the already dire situation
for patients and
staff footage from the Gaza Ministry of
Health appears to show the Frantic
evacuation of patients after Israel
launched its raid the Israeli Defense
Forces said explosive devices were
discovered and suspected terrorists
killed in the action Israel says Hamas
is directing quote terrorist activities
from a command center beneath the
hospital the UN estimates there are at
least 2,300 people still in the hospital
including patients staff and displaced
Palestinians in recent weeks the IDF has
publicly warned time and again that
hamas's continued military use of shifa
Hospital jeopard izes its protected
status under the international law but
the Palestinian Authority said Israel's
raid was in flagrant violation of
international
law it never happened in anywhere in
history that hospitals are targets what
is happening in Gaza is a
very obvious very clear War crime that
Israel is committing against those who
have been treated in the
us Israel's raid Drew International
condemnation the World Health
Organization called it totally
unacceptable while France said that
Palestinians should not be made to pay
for what it called hamas's
crimes but Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu told his troops that
the raid was just the latest step on the
road to his ultimate goal of eliminating
Hamas they told us that we would not
enter alifa we've
entered and in this Spirit we say a
simple thing there is no place in Gaza
that we will not reach there is no
hiding no shelter no refuge for the
murderers of Hamas we will arrive and
eliminate Hamas and return our
hostages these are two sacred
missions as Israel released footage of
its forces apparently pushing further
into Gaza the United States reiterated
its concern for the safety of patients
at alifa hospital but said it wouldn't
address the specifics of an ongoing
Israeli military
operation alifa Hospital's head of
surgery is Dr Marwan abusada and we
spoke with him today by phone the
connection was poor but the doctor was
able to tell us about what he had seen
during the Israeli
raid last night at 2 p.m. at 2: a.m. in
the morning the Israeli were invaded the
of the xray department and they stay
till this till this hour I think half an
hour ago they left this building but I
think they are still in hospital in
other places in the in the in some
buildings here but not in the surgical
buildings during the St
here they okay tried to inv some of the
be there and they destructed the whole
ex department they instructed the C scan
and B even the building of the C scan
and also the they distracted it and a
lot of things like furniture they
distracted but I think there's nothing
to found there a lot of people they were
in the door in that building this is the
issue I think the city scan was exploded
because the wall is damaged the wall of
the wall of the building where the city
scan is allocated is damage I think they
did some sort of uh exposion and so on
isra left one building but they didn't
they did not leave the did not live
leave the hos they didn't live or they
didn't don't leave the hospital so this
is still they are in some places of it
is nonfunctioning place like a kitchen
and another department which is not
functioning and so they are still
there and that was Dr marwin abusada
alifa Hospital's head of surgery and
again we apologize for the poor
connection
there I want to cross over now to Sophie
fan she's a correspondent with Germany's
domestic TV service Ard and she is
reporting from Tel Aviv she has been
following the events in this war sopie
it's good to have you with us talk to me
about the latest that we know from the
hospital grounds
tonight so as far as we know the Israeli
military raid in asifa hospital the
biggest Hospital in Gaza is still
ongoing the Israeli military says it is
a targeted and precise operation based
on intelligence that Hamas is using the
hospital for terrorist purposes we
cannot independently verify this it is
in general very hard to get information
out of asifa hospital today it is hard
to reach people we've heard from an
eyewitness that there was a lot of
confusion a lot of fear a lot of uh
chaos as Israeli soldiers were entering
the complex conducting searches and
interrogating people on the ground and
and Sophie has the IDF have they told us
what their forces found inside the
hospital during this
incursion so according to the Israeli
military they found weapons they found
rifles body armor ammunition other
military equipment and for the IDF the
America uh the Israeli military this is
an indication that the hospital was used
by Hamas uh for for its own purposes we
cannot verify any of this we cannot we
don't have any access to these grounds
at the moment the US government said
yesterday already that they also have
intelligence information pointing to
that however they said today they did
not sign off on this specific operation
in alifa hospital and and do we know
about the idf's next steps in this
area the Israeli government and the
Israeli Army have repeatedly said that
the goal is to destroy Hamas militarily
and politically and they've also
repeatedly said that they assume that
Hamas is using civilian infrastructure
such as hospitals as command centers
that they're building tunnels underneath
so it is possible that we're going to
see more raids in these kind of
Institutions the question is also will
Israeli Ground Forces at some point move
South in the Gaza strip as it is very
likely that hostages have been taken
South and that Hamas militants have
escaped South there are also rumors of a
possible hostage deal uh 50 hostages uh
50 women and children in return for 5
days of ceasefire and Palestinian
prisoners from Israeli prisons but we
cannot confirm any of this Sophie fundan
Ard correspondent reporting tonight from
Tel Aviv Sophie we appreciate your
reporting thank thank
you when nearly 240 hostages taken
during the Hamas attacks on October 7th
are still in Gaza talks about freeing
them continue relatives of the hostages
have marched from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem
in an attempt to put pressure on the
Israeli government to bring their loved
ones home DW's Rebecca ritters reports
tonight Red Cross do your job Red Cross
do your job now we're on a major highway
between Tel Aviv and Jerusalem these
people behind me family members and
Friends of some of the 240 hostages
still being held in Gaza they started
off yesterday they're making this 5day
journey between Tel and Jerusalem to try
to raise awareness for the pl of their
loved ones you'll hear them calling Red
Cross do your job un do your job they're
angry at the Israeli government and at
the inter commun they're frustrated but
not enough is being done to bring home
their loved ones we wait we wait we
wait I hope it's okay you you don't eat
you
don't you don't sleep there is no day
and night it's it's impossible I think
they need to do and everybody needs to
do whatever it needs in order to release
this all kidnapped from Gaza if they are
doing enough I'm not sure because they
are still in Gaza 40 days now
so obviously it's not enough not
everyone here has a family member in
Gaza but as the people here tell me
there isn't a person in Israel who
hasn't been affected by the events
oer we don't feel that enough is being
done in order to bring them home there
are many other targets that netan and
the government have uh selected and we
don't feel that we are in the first
priority the Marchers and an army of
volunteer supporters will arrive in
Jerusalem on Saturday night for protest
outside Benjamin netanyahu's office
bringing their message directly to the
Israeli
government the United Nations security
Council has passed a resolution calling
for Urgent extended humanitarian pauses
in the fighting between Israel and Hamas
in the Gaza Strip the resolution also
calls for corridors throughout the strip
to allow Aid to reach civilians and it
urges the immediate and unconditional
release of all hostages held by Hamas
militants and other groups especially
children it's the first resolution the
council has managed to pass since the
War Began more than a month ago the
United States Russia and the UK
abstained